alright so here I am on the macworld
website with an article about the
flashback trojan virus there's a lot of
articles out there you can basically
take your pick this one has a pretty
good array of information about the
subject so I'm just going to give a
quick overview of what it is and how to
check for it point in the right
direction of how to get rid of it if you
do so basically flashback is something
you'll find on malicious websites or web
sites that have been infected if you
happen to land on or go to one of these
websites flashback will begin installing
itself on your computer no
administrative password or permission
needed and it does this through java and
if you have the most updated version of
Java which was released on april third
through Apple you should be okay however
if you still have the old version or you
were infected before then obviously
that's a problem and so consider those
possibilities once flashback has
successfully installed itself on your
computer and I should mention as this is
happening you'll see a little Java
applet or what looks like Java applet a
bad applet pops up and then it begins
installing components on a computer
things that you don't want so so you
should see that but again it it looks
like japa so you may not really know but
either way it doesn't need your
permission it just begins installing
yourself so once it's inserted itself
into your computer it then inserts
itself into your web browser and begins
harvesting information all about your
web browsing this includes probably most
importantly usernames and passwords that
you'll enter on different websites any
kind of personal information will then
be out there through this flashback
software so not good things so number
one how to check for it I'm going to
jump over to mashable com here they
posted a page find out if you're
infected and what to do about it very
good so I'm going to scroll down here
and show you some of the instructions
they provided
with some code now this is one of two
ways that I'll show you to check for
this virus and I'm not going to get into
a lot of detail here but I will provide
a link for this page should you want to
research this a little bit further so
they'll tell you to go to your max
library folder and select launch agents
and from there you're going to search
for these items that they posted right
here unfortunately this is just a
picture perhaps somewhere out there
there's a list that you can just copy
and paste in your little search bar for
finder and use that but once you check
for all these they then have
instructions based on what you find for
you so again not going to get into a lot
of detail there i'm going to jump over
to their more updated version of this
the next day they posted a page called
the fast and easy way to check the
flashback so I'm just going to walk
through these basic steps so here you
have a couple of scripts that they have
written and provided i'm just going to
right click this and open in a new tab
to show you what this page looks like so
here you have a download page for these
scripts that are going to check for this
virus i'm just going to click download
here and a little folder downloads with
two items Trojan check and Trojan check
too why are there two you might ask i'm
going to go back to the page right up
here they've said well there are
actually two areas of your hard drive
that need to be checked for nasty files
so great they've provided a way for us
to check both of those so I'm just going
to go back to to those actually before
that we can just look at their example
right here this is the window that will
pop up once you run these scripts a
little bit different for both but the
ending should be the same does not exist
is what you want to look for and if
that's the case then you're in the clear
as they say so I'm going to run those
online Trojan check double click that go
on open it yes I do and that pops up in
my doc down here and I open it and says
does not exist at the end just like I
want okay now number two again pops up
down here do I want to open it yes click
and does not exist okay so I'm good
all right however if your box has
anything besides that when you run these
scripts then they have a link for you to
remove the malware from your computer
and that link is going to take you to
this page on f-secure with very detailed
specific instructions step by step of
how to remove this malware now if you're
not comfortable doing this hopefully you
have someone that can help you but the
instructions are very detailed and there
is more information out there about how
to do this just for a few google
searches should be good to go so but
that's that's a pretty good a lot of
links are going to point you to this
page with these instructions for
removing this smell we're so not too
great a cause for emergency but it is
something you'll want to check for see
if you have this flashback virus and
this is everything you need to to get
rid of it really so again I'll provide
links for those pages that I went
through but basically if you want to
make sure you're protected for right now
probably the quickest fix is to go to
your web browser I'm in Safari here I'm
just going to go to my preferences and
I've already done this I did have this
check to enable java but if you uncheck
it then your java is not enabled for
that web browser and flashback cannot
enter your computer because it uses java
to get in and beyond that you'll want to
make sure that you have the most updated
version some browsers use different
versions of Java so I'm not sure that it
will work on every browser but if you
uncheck that you're going to go for now
at least just to feel more secure make
sure you have the most updated and
working antivirus software's they should
catch that as well so anyway that's just
a basic overview and i'll give you the
links for these pages for further
research so there you go